---
title: "Grief"
date: "2025-08-04"
slug: "grief"
---

And it will hit you. When you are stirring your coffee. Or brushing your teeth. When you are fumbling through the books. When you are looking for the time table for the day. When the bus keeps honking and you have to tie your laces. When you are writing code. It will wrap its arms around you and hold you tightly. Like a lover does. It will start seeping into you. The chest. The oesophagus. The lungs. And then to blood. That blood will flow into your arteries and veins and then to each of your cells. You will become it. You will become grief. Grief which you had left that day because you had work. Grief which you had butchered once because exams were due. Grief which you looked into eye and said to shut up because you had to take care of someone. Someone else. But now, you are empty. There is no one to be taken care of. It is just you, your shoe laces, and a honking school bus. Grief has knocked you. At the door. It has wrapped you in its arms. And you don't know what to do now. You, a 10 year old child. You, a 15 year old teen. You, a 23 year old adult. You don't know what to do. And grief is refusing to leave. It says that it will stay here. Beside you. In your brush, in the shoelaces. In the books which you have to pack. In the chair on which you are sitting right now. You look at it. You wish you had the energy to plead. Or argue. Or delay its arriving. You wish you had the energy to run. But you have none. So you stay there. Holding your breath, in the hope that you never exhale. But you do. And the world unfortunately does not stop. What does stop is you.

It comes inside. Sits in you. And then you lie down. On the bed. On the stairs. On the school bench. On the office table. Wherever you are. You lie down. It holds your shoelaces in its hands and keep them aside, tenderly. It takes your school bag off your shoulders. It feeds you. One spoon at a time. The tears fall. The hands tremble. The breath chokes. You wrap your arms and legs like a cocoon. You hold your nerves. And search for someone. Desperately. And find only grief sitting beside you. You wrap yourself around it. Crying and howling like a baby. You cry for the days when you had to but you could not. You cry for falling from the chair. For losing a friend. For losing a lover. For losing your favorite pencil. For losing in a race. You cry loud and loud for the plant which died. You cry for getting out. You cry for burning bodies. You cry for your maa. Or papa. Or brother. Or sister. You cry for them to hold you. You cry for the trembling hands. You cry for fear. You cry for hospital corridors. You cry for everything. For leaving. For getting abandoned. For getting hurt. For hurting others. For the child. For the adult. For the teen. You cry and cry and cry until the eyes go sore. And then you cry some more.

Grief stays. Watching you. Holding you in its arms. Gently patting your head. Letting you cry. Grief stays. For long. For hours. For days and sometimes even for years. It stays right beside you. Right in you. With you. Bringing you water from time to time. Brushing your teeth on the days when your hands refuse to move. It stays patient. Without frowning. It lets you stay in it. As long as you need. It gives you a home. To laugh, to cry, to grieve, to envy. It gives its walls where you can play hide and seek. Where you can run to when you need a shelter. Where you can lie down when its too sunny outdoors. Grief gives you a home. A home to sleep in. Until you don't need it anymore. Until you feel like you can get up. Until the 10 year old teen can get up. Until the 15 year old adult can get up. Until the 23 year old child can get up. But till then, it wraps itself around you, warmly, like a mother. Patting your head. Safe. Secure. And full of love.

So you lie your head in its lap. Smiling wide. Holding its big fingers with your tiny hands. Sucking on your thumb just like a baby. Taking deep calm breaths. You, a cocoon, then finally for the first time, sleep peacefully.

Ayush

04/08/25